Cluster #:2

21549079 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['neurofibromatosisnoonan syndrom' 'neurofibromatosisnoonan'
 'rasmapk pathway' 'rasmapk' 'syndrom' 'neurofibromatosi' '1' 'pathway'
 'featur' 'disord report case' 'featur complain' 'boy neurofibromatosi 1'
 'syndrom case report' 'syndrom case' 'entiti combin featur'
 'entiti combin' 'disord report' 'case 17yearold' 'boy neurofibromatosi'
 '17yearold boy']

TEXT: Neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome: case report and clinicopathogenic review of the Neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome and RAS-MAPK pathway. Neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome is an entity that combines both features of Noonan syndrome and Neurofibromatosis type 1. This phenotypic overlap can be explained by the involvement of the RAS-MAPK pathway (mitogen-activated protein kinase) in both disorders. We report the case of a 17-year-old boy with Neurofibromatosis 1 with Noonan-like features, who complained of the progressive appearance of blue-gray lesions on his back.


26952712 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['syndrom multipl' 'syndrom multipl lentigin' 'neuropathi'
 'hypertroph neuropathi' 'multipl lentigin' 'lentigin'
 'noonan syndrom multipl' 'multipl' 'rasopathi' 'hypertroph' 'noonan'
 'noonan syndrom' 'syndrom' 'pthr468met mutat' 'refer neuropath'
 'refer neuropath pain' 'multipl lentigin nsml'
 'differenti diagnosi neurofibromatosi' 'differenti diagnosi' 'pthr468met']

TEXT: Hypertrophic neuropathy in Noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines. RASopathies comprise several genetic syndromes with mainly cardio-facial-cutaneous manifestations. We report a patient with Noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines (NSML) due to a PTPN11 (p.Thr468Met) mutation associated with hypertrophic neuropathy of lumbar plexus in an adult woman, initially referred for neuropathic pain. Differential diagnosis of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and other RASopathies is difficult without molecular testing. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.


23954459 :neurofibromatosis
Top TF-IDF terms:
['nf1' 'spinal' 'neurofibromatosi' 'spinal neurofibromatosi' 'famili'
 'nf1 gene' 'classic' 'classic nf1' 'nf1 gene mutat' 'gene mutat'
 'context classic nf1' 'context classic' 'stigmata' 'nf1 stigmata' 'fsnf'
 'member' 'gene' 'mutat' 'context' 'neurofibroma']

TEXT: Spinal neurofibromatosis in a family with classical neurofibromatosis type 1 and a novel NF1 gene mutation. Familial spinal neurofibromatosis (FSNF) is a rare form of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) characterized by multiple, histologically proven neurofibromas of the spinal roots leaving no intact segments and associated neurofibromas of major peripheral nerves. It is sometimes associated with other NF1 stigmata. Most patients have NF1 gene mutations. We describe a patient who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for spinal neurofibromatosis and belonged to a family in which other affected members exhibited classical NF1 stigmata. A novel missense (c.7109 T>A; p.Val2370Asp) mutation in exon 39 of the NF1 gene was present in the affected family members. The family displayed extreme phenotypic variability in the spectrum of NF1. To our knowledge, this is the first patient with spinal neurofibromatosis in the context of classical NF1 with an NF1 gene mutation. The term FSNF is inaccurate as this condition simply reflects the typical autosomal dominant pattern of NF1 inheritance with phenotypoc variability and does not encompass patients with sporadic disease or those in the context of a classical NF1 phenotype as reported in the present family. The term could be replaced by "spinal neurofibromatosis".


24032991 :neurofibromatosis
Top TF-IDF terms:
['occipit' 'od' 'gpnf' 'associ' '2' 'neurofibromatosi'
 'plexiform neurofibroma' 'giant plexiform' 'giant plexiform neurofibroma'
 'meningoencephalocel' 'author' 'calvari' 'dysplasia'
 'associ meningoencephalocel' 'report 2' 'case' 'neurofibroma' 'plexiform'
 'giant' 'lesion']

TEXT: Congenital giant plexiform neurofibroma with occipital calvarial dysplasia in association with meningoencephalocele in neurofibromatosis Type 1 and segmental neurofibromatosis: report of 2 cases. Giant plexiform neurofibroma (GPNF) of the scalp is an extremely rare lesion reported in association with neurofibromatosis. Occipital location of GPNF is even more infrequent, especially in association with occipital dysplasia (OD). The authors report 2 pediatric cases of GPNF associated with OD. The first case had an associated meningoencephalocele, and the second had large vascular channels within the lesion and the dominant ipsilateral transverse sinus lying in the center of the calvarial defect. The authors present these 2 unusual cases with a review of literature and discuss the radiological findings, theories of etiopathogenesis of the OD, and management dilemmas.


25008444 :neurofibromatosis
Top TF-IDF terms:
['neurofibromatosi' 'mosaic' 'segment neurofibromatosi'
 'neurofibromatosi 1' '1' 'segment' 'gener' 'mosaic gener'
 'report two case' 'report two' 'mutat occur' 'occur' 'give rise'
 'mosaic gener neurofibromatosi' 'two case' 'gener neurofibromatosi'
 'gener neurofibromatosi 1' 'mutat' 'somat' 'rise']

TEXT: Mosaic generalized neurofibromatosis 1: report of two cases. BACKGROUND: We report two cases of mosaic generalized neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) and review the history of the classification of segmental neurofibromatosis (SNF; Ricardi type NF-V). Somatic mutations giving rise to limited disease, such as segmental neurofibromatosis are manifestations of mosaicism. If the mutation occurs before tissue differentiation, the clinical phenotype will be generalized disease. Mutations that occur later in development give rise to disease that is confined to a single region. OBJECTIVES: Segmental neurofibromatosis is caused by a somatic mutation of neurofibromatosis type 1, and should not be regarded as a distinct entity from neurofibromatosis 1. Cases previously referred to as unilateral or bilateral segmental neurofibromatosis are now best referred to as mosaic generalized or mosaic localized neurofibromatosis 1.


27241659 :neurofibromatosis
Top TF-IDF terms:
['plexiform neurofibromatosi type' 'plexiform neurofibromatosi'
 'plexiform' 'type 1' 'neurofibromatosi' 'neurofibromatosi type'
 'neurofibromatosi type 1' '1' 'type' 'μm ± 041' 'entiti neurofibromatosi'
 'entiti consider investig' 'entiti consider' 'entiti combin featur'
 'entiti combin' 'entiti' 'entir understood although' 'environ'
 'entir understood' 'entir protein complex']

TEXT: Plexiform neurofibromatosis type 1. 



=======================================

Cluster #:3

24619745 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['current' 'tripleneg breast carcinoma' 'emerg' 'effort' 'concept'
 'histolog' 'breast carcinoma' 'made' 'target therapi' 'carcinoma'
 'target' 'tripleneg breast' 'tripleneg' 'biomark' 'affect' 'regard'
 'breast' 'potenti' 'subtyp' 'therapeut']

TEXT: Triple-negative breast carcinoma: current and emerging concepts. OBJECTIVES: Triple-negative breast cancer is regarded as an aggressive disease that affects a young patient population and for which effective targeted therapy is not yet available. METHODS: Intense efforts have been made to gain a better understanding of this heterogeneous group of tumors from the histologic to the genomic and molecular levels. RESULTS: Progress has been made, including the ability to subtype these tumors and the discovery of biomarkers toward which current therapeutic efforts are focused. Many novel targets under exploration have the potential to affect the clinical course of this disease. CONCLUSIONS: This article reviews the current concepts regarding the clinicopathologic features of triple-negative breast carcinoma, its histologic subtypes, molecular classification, the prognostic and therapeutic potential of biomarkers, and emerging targeted therapies.


25682074 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['brca1' 'brca2' 'mutat' 'brca1 brca2' 'patient' 'breast' 'tripleneg'
 'preval' 'cancer' 'tnbc' 'age' 'mutat carrier' 'studi studi' '774' 'brca'
 'noncarri' 'brca mutat' 'countri' 'brca1 mutat' 'australian']

TEXT: Prevalence of BRCA1 and BRCA2 germline mutations in patients with triple-negative breast cancer. Triple-negative breast cancers (TNBC) lack expression of oestrogen, progesterone and HER2 receptors. The gene expression profiles of TNBCs are similar to those of breast tumours in women with BRCA1 mutations. Reports to date indicate that up to 20 % of TNBC patients harbour germline BRCA mutations; however, the prevalence of BRCA mutations in TNBC patients varies widely between countries and from study to study. We studied 774 women with triple-negative breast cancer, diagnosed on average at age 58.0 years. Samples of genomic DNA were provided by the Australian Breast Cancer Tissue Bank (ABCTB) (439 patients) and by the Department of Genetics and Pathology of the Pomeranian Medical University (335 patients). The entire coding regions and the exon-intron boundaries of BRCA1 and BRCA2 were amplified and sequenced by next-generation sequencing. We identified a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation in 74 of 774 (9.6 %) triple-negative patients. The mutation prevalence was 9.3 % in Australia and was 9.9 % in Poland. In both countries, the mean age of diagnoses of BRCA1 mutation carriers was significantly lower than that of non-carriers, while the age of onset of BRCA2 mutation carriers was similar to that of non-carriers. In the Australian cohort, 59 % of the mutation-positive patients did not have a family history of breast or ovarian cancer, and would not have qualified for genetic testing. The triple-negative phenotype should be added as a criterion to genetic screening guidelines. 


25752562 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['locoregion' 'radiat' 'tnbc' 'locoregion manag' 'decis' 'therapi' 'data'
 'breast' 'manag' 'locoregion treatment' 'breast conserv therapi'
 'conserv therapi' 'radiat therapi' 'breast conserv' 'subtyp' 'impli'
 'treatment decis' 'risk' 'conserv' 'treatment']

TEXT: Radiation therapy in the locoregional treatment of triple-negative breast cancer. This Review assesses the relevant data and controversies regarding the use of radiotherapy for, and locoregional management of, women with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). In view of the strong association between BRCA1 and TNBC, knowledge of baseline mutation status can be useful to guide locoregional treatment decisions. TNBC is not a contraindication for breast conservation therapy because data suggest increased locoregional recurrence risks (relative to luminal subtypes) with breast conservation therapy or mastectomy. Although a boost to the tumour bed should routinely be considered after whole breast radiation therapy, TNBC should not be the sole indication for post-mastectomy radiation, and accelerated delivery methods for TNBC should be offered on clinical trials. Preliminary data implying a relative radioresistance for TNBC do not imply radiation omission because radiation provides an absolute locoregional risk reduction. At present, the integration of subtypes in locoregional management decisions is still in its infancy. Until level 1 data supporting treatment decisions based on subtypes are available, standard locoregional management principles should be adhered to. 


26201402 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['ar' 'tnbc' 'receptor' 'neg' 'breast cancer' 'cancer' 'breast'
 'neg breast' 'neg breast cancer' 'quadrupl neg' 'quadrupl' 'ar may'
 'androgen receptor' 'ar tnbc' 'androgen' 'therapi' 'prognosi'
 'cancer subtyp' 'breast cancer subtyp' 'tripl neg breast']

TEXT: Androgen Receptor Biology in Triple Negative Breast Cancer: a Case for Classification as AR+ or Quadruple Negative Disease. Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive breast cancer subtype that lacks estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) amplification. Due to the absence of these receptors, TNBC does not respond to traditional endocrine or HER2-targeted therapies that improve patient prognosis in other breast cancer subtypes. TNBC has a poor prognosis, and currently, there are no effective targeted therapies. Some TNBC tumors express androgen receptor (AR) and may benefit from AR-targeted therapies. Here, we review the literature on AR in TNBC and propose that TNBC be further sub-classified as either AR+ TNBC or quadruple negative breast cancer since targeting AR may represent a viable therapeutic option for a subset of TNBC. 


26273192 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['bc' 'tripleneg' 'taxan' 'tripleneg bc' 'taxan tripleneg' 'nabpaclitaxel'
 'better' 'metastat' 'tumor' 'neg' 'role' 'data' 'review' 'bc review data'
 'bc review' 'clinic set neoadjuv' 'clinic set' 'manag type tumor'
 'conclud effect' 'manag type']

TEXT: The role of taxanes in triple-negative breast cancer: literature review. Breast cancer (BC) is the most frequent tumor worldwide. Triple-negative BCs are characterized by the negative estrogen and progesterone receptors and negative HER2, and represent 15% of all BCs. In this review, data on the use of taxanes in triple-negative BCs are analyzed, concluding they are effective in any clinical setting (neoadjuvant, adjuvant, and metastatic). Further, the role of nab-paclitaxel (formulation of albumin-bound paclitaxel) in these tumors is also evaluated. The available data show the clinical potential of nab-paclitaxel based combinations in terms of long-duration response, increased survival, and better quality of life of patients with triple-negative metastatic BC. The ongoing trials will give further information on the better management of this type of tumor. 


26568208 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['circul tumor dna' 'tumor dna' 'circul' 'circul tumor' 'dna'
 'diagnosi treatment' 'improv manag' 'diagnosi treatment decis'
 'treatment decis' 'decis' 'treatment' 'tnbc' 'tumor' 'improv' 'manag'
 'cancer' 'diseas' 'breast cancer' 'breast' 'diagnosi']

TEXT: Circulating tumor DNA for triple-negative breast cancer diagnosis and treatment decisions. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a highly aggressive disease characterized by a high number of relapses and poor overall survival. The heterogeneity of the disease and the limited treatment options compared to other breast cancer subtypes mainly explain these clinical outcomes. New biomarkers are urgently needed to improve the management of TNBC. Circulating tumor DNA, identified by tumor-related molecular alterations, could be used in the context of non-invasive "liquid biopsy" and help in TNBC diagnosis and treatment decisions. In this review, we discuss the key issues related to the potential of circulating tumor DNA to improve the management of this disease and the future steps to overcome before its implementation into clinical routine within the next 5 years.


26820943 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['tripleneg' 'basallik' 'panel immunohistochem marker'
 'immunohistochem marker' 'panel immunohistochem' 'marker' 'panel'
 'cancer' 'carcinoma' 'immunohistochem' 'entir' 'breast cancer' 'breast'
 'receptor' 'use' 'tripleneg breast cancer' 'tripleneg breast'
 'surrog genom profil' 'equival nevertheless shown'
 'lack express estrogen']

TEXT: Immunohistochemistry for Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. Triple-negative breast cancers are a heterogeneous group of tumors that are, as yet, not entirely understood. Although triple-negative carcinomas are strictly defined as invasive carcinomas lacking expression of estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and HER2, some use the terms triple-negative and basal-like cancer synonymously. It should be noted that these are not entirely equivalent. Nevertheless, it has been shown that a panel of immunohistochemical markers can be used as a surrogate for genomic profiling and thus to identify basal-like breast cancers. We describe the panels of immunohistochemical markers that can be applied and how to interpret these markers herein. 


26925684 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['ki67' 'cancer subgroup' 'breast cancer subgroup' 'subgroup'
 'tripl neg breast' 'tripl neg' 'neg breast cancer' 'neg breast'
 'ki67 express' 'cancer' 'breast' 'breast cancer' 'neg' 'tripl' 'respons'
 'neoadjuv chemotherapi' 'neoadjuv' 'patholog' 'chemotherapi' 'express']

TEXT: Response of Triple Negative Breast Cancer to Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy: Correlation between Ki-67 Expression and Pathological Response. Triple-negative breast cancers constitute about 15% of all cases, but despite their higher response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy, the tumors are very aggressive and associated with a poor prognosis as well as a higher risk of early recurrence. This study was retrospectively performed on 101 patients with stage II and III invasive breast cancer who received 6-8 cycles of neo-adjuvant chemotherapy. Out of the total, 23 were in the triple negative breast cancer subgroup. Nuclear Ki-67 expression in both the large cohort group (n=101) and triple negative breast cancer subgroup (n=23) and its relation to the pathological response were evaluated. The purpose of the study was to identify the predictive value of nuclear protein Ki-67 expression among patients with invasive breast cancers, involving the triple negative breast cancer subgroup, treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy in correlation to the rate of pathological complete response. The proliferation marker Ki-67 expression was highest in the triple negative breast cancer subgroup. No appreciable difference in the rate of Ki-67 expression in triple negative breast cancer subgroup using either a cutoff of 14% or 35%. Triple negative breast cancer subgroup showed lower rates of pathological complete response. Achievement of pathological complete response was significantly correlated with smaller tumor size and higher Ki-67 expression. The majority of triple negative breast cancer cases achieved pathological partial response. The study concluded that Ki-67 is a useful tool to predict chemosensitivity in the setting of neoadjuvant chemotherapy for invasive breast cancer but not for the triple negative breast cancer subgroup. 


26968398 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['mammari' 'stem cell' 'stem' 'embryon' 'cell' 'mammari gland' 'gland'
 'bc' 'develop' 'mammari stem' 'mammari stem cell' 'tic' 'adult'
 'tumorigenesi' 'regul' 'embryon develop' 'subtyp bc' 'cripto1' 'compart'
 'etiolog']

TEXT: Developmental signaling pathways regulating mammary stem cells and contributing to the etiology of triple-negative breast cancer. Cancer has been considered as temporal and spatial aberrations of normal development in tissues. Similarities between mammary embryonic development and cell transformation suggest that the underlying processes required for mammary gland development are also those perturbed during various stages of mammary tumorigenesis and breast cancer (BC) development. The master regulators of embryonic development Cripto-1, Notch/CSL, and Wnt/β-catenin play key roles in modulating mammary gland morphogenesis and cell fate specification in the embryo through fetal mammary stem cells (fMaSC) and in the adult organism particularly within the adult mammary stem cells (aMaSC), which determine mammary progenitor cell lineages that generate the basal/myoepithelial and luminal compartments of the adult mammary gland. Together with recognized transcription factors and embryonic stem cell markers, these embryonic regulatory molecules can be inappropriately augmented during tumorigenesis to support the tumor-initiating cell (TIC)/cancer stem cell (CSC) compartment, and the effects of their deregulation may contribute for the etiology of BC, in particular the most aggressive subtype of BC, triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). This in depth review will present evidence of the involvement of Cripto-1, Notch/CSL, and Wnt/β-catenin in the normal mammary gland morphogenesis and tumorigenesis, from fMaSC/aMaSC regulation to TIC generation and maintenance in TNBC. Specific therapies for treating TNBC by targeting these embryonic pathways in TICs will be further discussed, providing new opportunities to destroy not only the bulk tumor, but also TICs that initiate and promote the metastatic spread and recurrence of this aggressive subtype of BC. 


27015557 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['ar' 'immunemedi' 'sensit' 'ar inhibit' 'cell' 'androgen' 'cancer'
 'breast' 'breast cancer' 'breast cancer cell' 'cancer cell'
 'immunemedi kill' 'cell immunemedi' 'increas sensit' 'kill' 'ar tnbc'
 'tnbc' 'express' 'inhibit' 'receptor']

TEXT: Androgen deprivation therapy sensitizes triple negative breast cancer cells to immune-mediated lysis through androgen receptor independent modulation of osteoprotegerin. Among breast cancer types, triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) has the fewest treatment options and the lowest 5-year survival rate. Androgen receptor (AR) inhibition has displayed efficacy against breast cancer preclinically and is currently being examined clinically in AR positive TNBC patients. Androgen deprivation has been shown to induce immunogenic modulation; the alteration of tumor cell phenotype resulting in increased sensitivity to immune-mediated killing. We evaluated the ability of AR inhibition to reduce the growth and improve the immune-mediated killing of breast cancer cells with differing expression of the estrogen receptor and AR. While AR expression was required for the growth inhibitory effects of enzalutamide on breast cancer cells, both enzalutamide and abiraterone improved the sensitivity of breast cancer cells to immune-mediated lysis independent of detectable AR expression. This increase in sensitivity was linked to an increase in cell surface tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) receptor expression as well as a significant reduction in the expression of osteoprotegerin (OPG). The reduction in OPG was further examined and found to be critical for the increase in sensitivity of AR- TNBC cells to immune-mediated killing. The data presented herein further support the use of AR inhibition therapy in the AR+ TNBC setting. These data, however, also support the consideration of AR inhibition therapy for the treatment of AR- TNBC, especially in combination with cancer immunotherapy, providing a potential novel therapeutic option for select patients. 


27580659 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['brachyuri' 'tnbc' 'cancer' 'vaccin' 'tumor' 'analysi' 'primari'
 'metastat' 'treatment' 'express' 'nuclear brachyuri' 'tumor metastasi'
 'brachyurytarget' 'level brachyuri' 'cancer vaccin' 'treatment tnbc'
 'primari metastat' 'vs' 'predomin' 'dataset']

TEXT: Brachyury, a vaccine target, is overexpressed in triple-negative breast cancer. Patients diagnosed with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) have a high rate of tumor metastasis and a poor prognosis. The treatment option for these patients is currently chemotherapy, which results in very low response rates. Strategies that exploit the immune system for the treatment of cancer have now shown the ability to improve survival in several tumor types. Identifying potential targets for immune therapeutic interventions is an important step in developing novel treatments for TNBC. In this study, in silico analysis of publicly available datasets and immunohistochemical analysis of primary and metastatic tumor biopsies from TNBC patients were conducted to evaluate the expression of the transcription factor brachyury, which is a driver of tumor metastasis and resistance and a target for cancer vaccine approaches. Analysis of breast cancer datasets demonstrated a predominant expression of brachyury mRNA in TNBC and in basal vs luminal or HER2 molecular breast cancer subtypes. At the protein level, variable levels of brachyury expression were detected both in primary and metastatic TNBC lesions. A strong association was observed between nuclear brachyury protein expression and the stage of disease, with nuclear brachyury being more predominant in metastatic vs primary tumors. Survival analysis also demonstrated an association between high levels of brachyury in the primary tumor and poor prognosis. Two brachyury-targeting cancer vaccines are currently undergoing clinical evaluation; the data presented here provide rationale for using brachyury-targeting immunotherapy approaches for the treatment of TNBC.


27888421 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['wors' 'nontnbc' 'stage' 'cancer' 'surviv' 'time' 'patient tnbc'
 'breast cancer' 'breast' 'tnbc' 'patient' 'causespecif surviv' 'institut'
 'stage substag' 'causespecif' 'os' 'tnbc wors' 'substag'
 'ajcc stage manual' 'ajcc stage']

TEXT: Triple-negative breast cancer has worse overall survival and cause-specific survival than non-triple-negative breast cancer. PURPOSE: The current American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging manual uses tumor size, lymph node, and metastatic status to stage breast cancer across different subtypes. We examined the prognosis of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) versus non-TNBC within the same stages and sub-stages to evaluate whether TNBC had worse prognosis than non-TNBC. METHODS: We reviewed the National Cancer Institute Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) data and identified 158,358 patients diagnosed with breast cancer from 2010 to 2012. The overall survival (OS) time and breast cancer cause-specific survival time were compared between patients with TNBC and non-TNBC in each stage and sub-stages. The results were validated using a dataset of 2049 patients with longer follow-up from our institution. RESULTS: Compared with patients with non-TNBC, patients with TNBC had worse OS and breast cancer cause-specific survival time in every stage and sub-stage in univariate and multivariate analyses adjusting for age, race, tumor grade, and surgery and radiation treatments in the SEER data. The worse OS time in patients with TNBC was validated in our institutional dataset. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with TNBC have worse survival than patients with non-TNBC. The new AJCC staging manual should consider breast cancer biomarker information.


28101798 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['tripl neg' 'tripl' 'neg' 'mirna' 'neg breast' 'tripl neg breast'
 'neg breast cancer' 'mir153' 'mir10b' 'mir26a' 'mir146a' 'express'
 'brca1' 'cancer' 'breast' 'non' 'non tripl' 'non tripl neg'
 'breast cancer' 'mir26a mir146a']

TEXT: miR-10b, miR-26a, miR-146a And miR-153 Expression in Triple Negative Vs Non Triple Negative Breast Cancer: Potential Biomarkers. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs composed of 18-25 nucleotides that can post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression and have key regulatory roles in cancer, acting as both oncogenes and tumor suppressors. About 1000 genes in humans encode miRNAs, which account for approximately 3% of the human genome, and up to 30% of human protein coding genes may be regulated by miRNAs. The objective of this article is to evaluate the expression profile of four miRNAs previously implicated in triple negative breast cancer: miR-10b, miR-26a, miR-146a and miR-153, and to determine their possible interaction in triple negative and non triple negative breast cancer based on clinical outcome and the expression of BRCA1. 24 triple-negative and 13 non triple negative breast cancer cases, were studied by q-RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry to determine the expression of the four studied miRNAs and the BRCA1 protein, respectively. We observed that the BRCA1 protein was absent in 62.5% of the triple negative cases. Besides, the miR-146a and miR-26a were over expressed in triple negative breast cancer. These two miRNAs, miR-10b and miR-153 were significantly associated to lymph node metastases occurrence in triple negative breast carcinoma. All the analyzed microRNAs were not associated with the expression of BRCA1 in our conditions. Our work provides evidence that miR-146a, miR-26a, miR-10b and miR-153 could be defined as biomarkers in triple negative breast cancer to predict lymph node metastases (LNM).


28198380 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['pak4' 'kpt9274' 'cancer' 'breast' 'breast cancer' 'tripl neg' 'tripl'
 'neg' 'neg breast cancer' 'tripl neg breast' 'neg breast' 'compound'
 'cancer cell' 'breast cancer cell' 'cell' 'inhibit pak4' 'pak4 protein'
 'growth breast' 'compound kpt9274' 'growth breast cancer']

TEXT: A novel orally bioavailable compound KPT-9274 inhibits PAK4, and blocks triple negative breast cancer tumor growth. Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease consisting of several subtypes. Among these subtypes, triple negative breast cancer is particularly difficult to treat. This is due to a lack of understanding of the mechanisms behind the disease, and consequently a lack of druggable targets. PAK4 plays critical roles in cell survival, proliferation, and morphology. PAK4 protein levels are high in breast cancer cells and breast tumors, and the gene is often amplified in basal like breast cancers, which are frequently triple negative. PAK4 is also overexpressed in other types of cancer, making it a promising drug target. However, its inhibition is complicated by the fact that PAK4 has both kinase-dependent and -independent functions. Here we investigate a new clinical compound KPT-9274, which has been shown to inhibit PAK4 and NAMPT. We find that KPT-9274 (and its analog, KPT-8752) can reduce the steady state level of PAK4 protein in triple negative breast cancer cells. These compounds also block the growth of the breast cancer cells in vitro, and stimulate apoptosis. Most importantly, oral administration of KPT-9274 reduces tumorigenesis in mouse models of human triple negative breast cancer. Our results indicate that KPT-9274 is a novel therapeutic option for triple negative breast cancer therapy.


28618929 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['cancer' 'breast' 'breast cancer' 'cardiac glycosid' 'glycosid' 'cardiac'
 'cell' 'digitoxin' 'tripleneg breast' 'tripleneg breast cancer'
 'tripleneg' 'importantli' 'treatment' 'analog monod' 'synthet analog'
 'factor kappa b' 'cancer importantli' 'estrogen receptorposit' 'monod'
 'breast cancer importantli']

TEXT: Anti-tumorigenic effects of a novel digitoxin derivative on both estrogen receptor-positive and triple-negative breast cancer cells. While there are targeted treatments for triple positive breast cancers, lack of specific biomarkers for triple-negative breast cancers (TNBC) has hindered the development of therapies for this subset of cancers. In this study, we evaluated the anticancer properties of cardiac glycoside Digitoxin (Dtx) and its synthetic analog MonoD on breast cancer cell lines MCF-7 (estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer) and MDA-MB-468 (triple-negative breast cancer). Both cardiac glycosides, at concentrations within the therapeutic range, increased the fraction of cells in the G0/G1 phase of the cell cycle, decreased viability, and inhibited the migration of MCF-7 and MDA-MB-468 cells. Both cardiac glycosides increased production of superoxide and induced apoptosis in both cell types. Reduced protein levels of nuclear factor kappa B and IkappaB kinase-beta were found in cardiac glycoside-treated cells, indicating that the cellular effects of these compounds are mediated via nuclear factor kappa B pathway. This study demonstrates the cytotoxic potential of digitoxin, and more importantly its synthetic analog MonoD, in the treatment of triple-positive breast cancer and more importantly the aggressive triple-negative breast cancer. Collectively, this study provides a basis for the reevaluation of cardiac glycosides in the treatment of breast cancer and more importantly reveals their potential in the treatment of triple-negative breast cancers.


28653902 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['receptor tyrosin kinas' 'receptor tyrosin' 'tyrosin kinas' 'tyrosin'
 'tyrosin kinas inhibitor' 'kinas inhibitor' 'kinas' 'outcom' 'inhibitor'
 'receptor' 'target receptor tyrosin' 'microenviron' 'target receptor'
 'cancer' 'breast' 'breast cancer' 'resist' 'node' 'mani'
 'tripleneg breast']

TEXT: NF-κB as the main node of resistance to receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors in triple-negative breast cancer. Graphical abstract Although accounting for merely a minute portion of diagnosed breast cancers, disproportionate number of deaths and associated low survival rate of patients have made triple-negative breast cancer to be considered as the most lethal breast cancer subtype. More importantly, intrinsic or developed resistance to chemotherapeutic regimens and disappointing outcomes of trials associated with many newly developed agents are other obstacles in establishment of a durable response in these patients. Interestingly, these happen despite the outstanding preclinical outcomes observed by these agents, most importantly among them, targeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Pursuing these disappointing outcomes, especially in the case of targeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors, many researches have focused on identification of the hidden factors involved. Highly inflammatory, rich in reactive oxygen species, and hypoxic microenvironment of triple-negative breast cancer tumors and the involving mediators were the first suggestions for observed resistance and poor clinical outcomes of targeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Interestingly, for all aberrantly expressed mediators observed in microenvironment, downstream pathways converge in a common node, nothing but the nuclear factor-κB, the insidious factor proposed to be the cause of many events opposing achievement of a desired outcome. In first section of current review, we describe the signaling pathways underlying activation of receptor tyrosine kinases and their convergence at the nuclear factor-κB node, and in next section, we demonstrate how unique hypoxic, inflammatory, rich in free-radical microenvironment of triple-negative breast cancer exacerbate pathways in which otherwise could become mostly suppressed by receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors.


28958991 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['parp' '53bp1' 'respons' 'parp inhibitor' 'cell' 'inhibitor'
 'antiparp therapi' 'parp inhibit' 'gene signatur' 'antiparp' 'signatur'
 'cancer' 'gene' 'valu' 'dna' 'breast cancer' 'breast' 'tripleneg'
 'percentag cell posit' 'cleav']

TEXT: Pathway-Enriched Gene Signature Associated with 53BP1 Response to PARP Inhibition in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. Effective treatment of patients with triple-negative (ER-negative, PR-negative, HER2-negative) breast cancer remains a challenge. Although PARP inhibitors are being evaluated in clinical trials, biomarkers are needed to identify patients who will most benefit from anti-PARP therapy. We determined the responses of three PARP inhibitors (veliparib, olaparib, and talazoparib) in a panel of eight triple-negative breast cancer cell lines. Therapeutic responses and cellular phenotypes were elucidated using high-content imaging and quantitative immunofluorescence to assess markers of DNA damage (53BP1) and apoptosis (cleaved PARP). We determined the pharmacodynamic changes as percentage of cells positive for 53BP1, mean number of 53BP1 foci per cell, and percentage of cells positive for cleaved PARP. Inspired by traditional dose-response measures of cell viability, an EC50 value was calculated for each cellular phenotype and each PARP inhibitor. The EC50 values for both 53BP1 metrics strongly correlated with IC50 values for each PARP inhibitor. Pathway enrichment analysis identified a set of DNA repair and cell cycle-associated genes that were associated with 53BP1 response following PARP inhibition. The overall accuracy of our 63 gene set in predicting response to olaparib in seven breast cancer patient-derived xenograft tumors was 86%. In triple-negative breast cancer patients who had not received anti-PARP therapy, the predicted response rate of our gene signature was 45%. These results indicate that 53BP1 is a biomarker of response to anti-PARP therapy in the laboratory, and our DNA damage response gene signature may be used to identify patients who are most likely to respond to PARP inhibition. Mol Cancer Ther; 16(12); 2892-901. ©2017 AACR.


30391405 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['alnm' 'epim' 'drug' 'effect' 'micel' 'axillari' 'polymer micel'
 'axillari lymph node' 'drug releas' 'releas' 'treatment alnm'
 'axillari lymph' 'node metastasi' 'lymph node metastasi' 'select accumul'
 'phtrigger' 'alnm tnbc' 'properti epim' 'phtrigger drug'
 'phtrigger drug releas']

TEXT: Epirubicin-loaded polymeric micelles effectively treat axillary lymph nodes metastasis of breast cancer through selective accumulation and pH-triggered drug release. Suppression of axillary lymph node metastasis (ALNM) is an important goal in the treatment of breast cancer. While several therapies directed to ALNM have been evaluated, effective and safe treatments for ALNM in triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) have not been established yet, especially against initial/small metastases. Here, we demonstrated the therapeutic effect of an anthracycline drug, epirubicin (EPI)-loaded polymeric micelles equipped with pH-triggered drug release property (EPI/m) against ALNM of TNBC. EPI/m effectively inhibited the spread of the primary tumor and the growth of ALNM, through selective accumulation and penetration in both primary tumor and vascularized ALNM, as well as efficient drug activation triggered by the intratumoral acidic environment. Furthermore, we revealed that the improvement of the activated drug distribution of EPI/m contributed to dose-dependent enhancement of the antitumor effect through expansion of the therapeutic window. These findings highlight the utility of pH-responsive property in EPI/m for the treatment of ALNM in TNBC.


30397860 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['arc155858' '4t1' 'mct1' '±' 'tumor' 'model' 'concentr' 'xenograft'
 'efficaci' 'transport' 'cancer' 'transport 1' '4t1 breast cancer'
 '4t1 breast' 'murin 4t1 breast' 'lactat concentr' 'nm respect'
 'murin 4t1' 'murin' 'monocarboxyl transport 1']

TEXT: In Vitro and In Vivo Efficacy of the Monocarboxylate Transporter 1 Inhibitor AR-C155858 in the Murine 4T1 Breast Cancer Tumor Model. Monocarboxylate transporter 1 (MCT1), also known as a L-lactate transporter, is a potential therapeutic target in cancer. The objectives of this study were to evaluate efficacy and assess concentration-effect relationships of AR-C155858 (a selective and potent MCT1 inhibitor) in murine 4T1 breast cancer cells and in the 4T1 tumor xenograft model. Western blotting of 4T1 cells demonstrated triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) characteristics and overexpression of MCT1 and CD147 (a MCT1 accessory protein), but absence of MCT4 expression. AR-C155858 inhibited the cellular L-lactate uptake and cellular proliferation at low nanomolar potencies (IC50 values of 25.0 ± 4.2 and 20.2 ± 0.2 nM, respectively). In the xenograft 4T1 mouse model of immunocompetent animals, AR-C155858 (10 mg/kg i.p. once daily) had no effect on tumor volume and weight. Treatment with AR-C155858 resulted in slightly increased tumor lactate concentrations; however, the changes were not statistically significant. AR-C155858 was well tolerated, as demonstrated by the unchanged body weight and blood lactate concentrations. Average blood and tumor AR-C155858 concentrations (110 ± 22 and 574 ± 245 nM, respectively), 24 h after the last dose, were well above the IC50 values. These data indicate that AR-C155858 penetrated 4T1 xenograft tumors and was present at high concentrations but was ineffective in decreasing tumor growth. Evaluations of AR-C155858 in other preclinical models of breast cancer are needed to further assess its efficacy.


30405852 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['angiogenesi' 'vegf' 'e2' 'vegf express' 'tnbc' 'e2 inhibit' 'gper1'
 'oestrogen' 'express' 'inhibit' 'inhibit vegf' 'express angiogenesi'
 'vegf express angiogenesi' 'endotheli' 'mdamb468' 'tnbc cell' 'tumour'
 'cell' 'g1' 'angiogenesi tnbc']

TEXT: Oestrogen Inhibits VEGF Expression And Angiogenesis In Triple-Negative Breast Cancer By Activating GPER-1. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most malignant type of breast cancer with ample vascularisation and high vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression. The sex steroid hormone oestrogen is involved in several cellular activities associated with TNBC regulation. However, the role of oestrogen in VEGF expression and angiogenesis in TNBC remains unclear. In this study, we found that treatment with 17β-oestradiol (E2) inhibited VEGF mRNA and protein expression in the TNBC cell lines MDA-MB-468 and MDA-MB-436. To further elaborate on the phenomenon of E2-regulated angiogenesis, we showed that conditioned medium from the TNBC cell line MDA-MB-468 treated with E2 inhibits the tube formation ability of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Additionally, the G-protein-coupled oestrogen receptor-1 (GPER-1)-specific agonist G-1 has a function similar to that of E2. While G-15, the selective antagonist of GPER-1, notably reversed the inhibitory effects of E2 and G-1 on VEGF expression and tube formation, suggesting that GPER-1 is involved in the E2-induced angiogenesis suppression in TNBC cells. Moreover, E2 inhibited in vivo tumour growth and angiogenesis and reduced the expression levels of VEGF, NF-κB/p65, STAT3, and the endothelial marker CD34 in MDA-MB-468 xenograft tumours. Our findings provide important evidence that E2 can inhibit VEGF expression and angiogenesis in TNBC by activating GPER-1, offering additional insight into tumour angiogenesis and targets for drug intervention in TNBC.


30419345 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['immunotherapi' 'tnbc' 'immunotherapi tnbc' 'cancer' 'treatment'
 'receptor' 'therapi' 'breast cancer' 'breast' 'chemotherapi' 'subtyp'
 'molecular' 'target' 'tripleneg breast cancer' 'tripleneg breast'
 'tripleneg' 'pr human epiderm' 'target therapi present'
 'structur cover molecular' 'pr human']

TEXT: Immunological therapy: A novel thriving area for triple-negative breast cancer treatment. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) refers to cancers that are low in expression of the estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). TNBC tends to behave more aggressively than other types of breast cancer. Unlike other breast cancer subtypes (ie, ER-positive, HER2-positive subtypes), there are no approved targeted treatments available, other than the administration of chemotherapy. Immunotherapy is a new kind of treatment approach for TNBC when compared with the surgical treatment, chemotherapy, endocrine therapy, and molecular targeting therapy. The present article reviews the research progresses of immunotherapy for TNBC in recent years. The full text structure covers molecular classification of TNBC, active immunotherapy of TNBC, passive immunotherapy of TNBC, oncolytic immunotherapy and the prospect of immunotherapy for TNBC.


30419349 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['depdc1' 'tnbc' 'cell prolifer' 'foxm1' 'mir26b' 'cell' 'regul' 'upregul'
 'prolifer' 'express' 'via upregul foxm1' 'via upregul' 'regul progress'
 'prolifer tumor' 'regul progress tnbc' 'facilit cell prolifer'
 'facilit cell' 'facilit' 'prolifer tumor growth' 'upregul foxm1 express']

TEXT: DEPDC1, negatively regulated by miR-26b, facilitates cell proliferation via the up-regulation of FOXM1 expression in TNBC. Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC), characterized by lack of estrogen receptors, progesterone hormone receptors, and HER2 overexpression, is a more aggressive high grade tumor and not sensitive to current targeted drugs. The clinical prognosis of TNBC is poorer than other types of breast cancer, and there is no effective therapy strategy until now. Thus, it is necessary to determine important factors involved in regulating the progression of TNBC. In this study, we found DEPDC1 was up-regulated in the tissues of TNBC compared with their paired peritumoral tissues. DEPDC1 over-expression facilitated cell proliferation and tumor growth through increasing the expression of FOXM1 in TNBC cells. Conversely, knockdown of DEPDC1 had the opposite effects. Moreover, miR-26b, acting as a tumor suppressor in TNBC, directly repressed the expression of DEPDC1 and mitigated its promotive effects on cell growth and colony formation. These results indicate that DEPDC1, negatively regulated by miR-26b, promotes cell proliferation and tumor growth via up-regulating FOXM1 expression, implying an important underlying mechanism of regulating the progression of TNBC.


10025425 :alzheimer’s
Top TF-IDF terms:
['nft' 'addlb' 'neurofibrillari' 'score' 'neocort' 'nft score' 'frequenc'
 'tangl' 'pure ad' 'nft frequenc' 'neocort nft' 'pure'
 'neurofibrillari tangl' 'case' 'ad' 'frequent' 'neurofibrillari patholog'
 'braak score' 'neocort nft score' 'modifi braak score']

TEXT: Neurofibrillary pathology in Alzheimer disease with Lewy bodies: two subgroups. BACKGROUND: While NFT frequency is reportedly reduced in AD+DLB, we often encounter abundant neocortical NFTs in such cases and decided to investigate this discrepancy. OBJECTIVE: To compare neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) frequency in Alzheimer disease with concomitant dementia with Lewy bodies (AD+DLB) with NFT frequency in "pure" AD. METHODS: Neurofibrillary tangle frequency, as well as regional staging of neurofibrillary degeneration modified from Braak, was scored in 160 autopsy cases of primary dementia (80 AD+DLB cases and 80 pure AD cases). RESULTS: Neurofibrillary tangle and modified Braak scores were lower in AD+DLB, as reported previously. Yet, neocortical NFT scores assumed markedly different patterns in the 2 groups (P = .001). In pure AD, NFT scores of "frequent" were predominant: more cases exhibited frequent than moderate or sparse NFTs. In AD+DLB, the distribution of NFT scores was bimodal: NFTs were either frequent or few to absent. Neocortical NFT scores in the AD+DLB group tended to parallel the severity of other types of tau cytopathology (neuropil threads and tau-positive plaque neurites). CONCLUSIONS: Cases of AD+DLB may be divided into 2 subgroups based on the extent of neocortical neurofibrillary pathology. These findings could have implications for disease pathogenesis and treatment.



=======================================

Cluster #:4

21263000 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['nra' 'mutat nra' 'noonan syndrom' 'noonan' 'zebrafish' 'defect'
 'zebrafish embryo' 'activ' 'embryo' 'syndrom' 'mutat' 'development'
 'activ nra' 'defect zebrafish embryo' 'defect zebrafish' 'signal' 'induc'
 'individu' 'i24n' 'defect noonan']

TEXT: Noonan syndrome gain-of-function mutations in NRAS cause zebrafish gastrulation defects. Noonan syndrome is a relatively common developmental disorder that is characterized by reduced growth, wide-set eyes and congenital heart defects. Noonan syndrome is associated with dysregulation of the Ras-mitogen-activated-protein-kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. Recently, two mutations in NRAS were reported to be associated with Noonan syndrome, T50I and G60E. Here, we report a mutation in NRAS, resulting in an I24N amino acid substitution, that we identified in an individual bearing typical Noonan syndrome features. The I24N mutation activates N-Ras, resulting in enhanced downstream signaling. Expression of N-Ras-I24N, N-Ras-G60E or the strongly activating mutant N-Ras-G12V, which we included as a positive control, results in developmental defects in zebrafish embryos, demonstrating that these activating N-Ras mutants are sufficient to induce developmental disorders. The defects in zebrafish embryos are reminiscent of symptoms in individuals with Noonan syndrome and phenocopy the defects that other Noonan-syndrome-associated genes induce in zebrafish embryos. MEK inhibition completely rescued the activated N-Ras-induced phenotypes, demonstrating that these defects are mediated exclusively by Ras-MAPK signaling. In conclusion, mutations in NRAS from individuals with Noonan syndrome activated N-Ras signaling and induced developmental defects in zebrafish embryos, indicating that activating mutations in NRAS cause Noonan syndrome.


21263000 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['nra' 'mutat nra' 'noonan syndrom' 'noonan' 'zebrafish' 'defect'
 'zebrafish embryo' 'activ' 'embryo' 'syndrom' 'mutat' 'development'
 'activ nra' 'defect zebrafish embryo' 'defect zebrafish' 'signal' 'induc'
 'individu' 'i24n' 'defect noonan']

TEXT: Noonan syndrome gain-of-function mutations in NRAS cause zebrafish gastrulation defects. Noonan syndrome is a relatively common developmental disorder that is characterized by reduced growth, wide-set eyes and congenital heart defects. Noonan syndrome is associated with dysregulation of the Ras-mitogen-activated-protein-kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. Recently, two mutations in NRAS were reported to be associated with Noonan syndrome, T50I and G60E. Here, we report a mutation in NRAS, resulting in an I24N amino acid substitution, that we identified in an individual bearing typical Noonan syndrome features. The I24N mutation activates N-Ras, resulting in enhanced downstream signaling. Expression of N-Ras-I24N, N-Ras-G60E or the strongly activating mutant N-Ras-G12V, which we included as a positive control, results in developmental defects in zebrafish embryos, demonstrating that these activating N-Ras mutants are sufficient to induce developmental disorders. The defects in zebrafish embryos are reminiscent of symptoms in individuals with Noonan syndrome and phenocopy the defects that other Noonan-syndrome-associated genes induce in zebrafish embryos. MEK inhibition completely rescued the activated N-Ras-induced phenotypes, demonstrating that these defects are mediated exclusively by Ras-MAPK signaling. In conclusion, mutations in NRAS from individuals with Noonan syndrome activated N-Ras signaling and induced developmental defects in zebrafish embryos, indicating that activating mutations in NRAS cause Noonan syndrome.


21706501 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['noonan' 'noonan syndrom' 'nuchal' 'prenat' 'syndrom' 'ultrasound' 'dna'
 'increas nuchal transluc' 'nuchal transluc' 'diagnosi noonan'
 'diagnosi noonan syndrom' 'syndrom fetus' 'fetus' 'sonograph'
 'noonan syndrom fetus' 'increas nuchal' 'transluc' 'dna test'
 'target dna' 'diagnosi']

TEXT: Targeted ultrasound examination and DNA testing for Noonan syndrome, in fetuses with increased nuchal translucency and normal karyotype. OBJECTIVE: To define sonographic criteria that may improve the prenatal diagnosis of Noonan syndrome by targeted DNA testing. METHODS: We searched our Fetal Medicine Unit records for all cases with a final diagnosis of Noonan syndrome. A literature review was undertaken to identify the sonographic features of Noonan syndrome fetuses. Information was pooled to define the most common features. RESULTS: In our database, we identified three cases of Noonan syndrome. The diagnosis was suspected prenatally in two of them. Thirty-nine cases were identified in the literature. In the presented cases we show that suspicion of Noonan syndrome should arise when, after an increased nuchal translucency, ultrasound investigation in the second trimester shows a persistant nuchal fold (NF) or cystic hygroma in combination with at least one of the following features: hydrops fetalis, pleural effusion, cardiac anomalies, polyhydramnios or specific facial abnormalities. CONCLUSION: Prenatal ultrasound findings in Noonan syndrome can be subtle and aspecific, but when specific characteristics are present additional targeted DNA analysis is indicated.


22011734 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['glioneuron' 'noonan syndrom' 'noonan' 'glioneuron tumor'
 'form glioneuron' 'rosett form' 'rosett' 'form glioneuron tumor'
 'rosett form glioneuron' 'tumor' 'syndrom' 'molecular' 'form' 'pathway'
 'primari' 'immunoreact' 'development delay' 'immunoreact suggest'
 'tumor consid' 'review literatur regard']

TEXT: Rosette forming glioneuronal tumor in association with Noonan syndrome: pathobiological implications. Noonan syndrome, a distinctive syndrome characterized by dysmorphism, cardiac abnormalities and developmental delay, has been associated with a number of malignancies, however, only a few cases of primary glial or glioneuronal neoplasms have been reported. We report here the case of an 18-year-old with Noonan syndrome who developed a rosette forming glioneuronal tumor of the posterior fossa. The tumor demonstrated strong pERK immunoreactivity, suggesting MAPK/ERK pathway activation. Molecular testing did not reveal BRAF rearrangements (fusion transcripts) by PCR or a BRAFV600E mutation by sequencing. We review the literature regarding the molecular pathogenesis of Noonan syndrome and primary brain tumors, and consider the intriguing link between their common molecular pathways.


23211900 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['giant cell' 'central giant cell' 'central giant' 'giant' 'central'
 'noonanlik' 'noonanlik central giant' 'cell syndrom' 'noonanlik central'
 'giant cell syndrom' 'syndrom' 'cell' 'provid' 'common' 'noonan'
 'noonan syndrom' 'syndrom noonanlik' 'defici provid inform' 'age 12 16'
 'age 12']

TEXT: Case report: Noonan-like multiple central giant cell granuloma syndrome. The purpose of this report was to: summarize the care of a child between the ages of 12 to 16 years old born with Noonan-like central giant cell syndrome and unrelated common variable immune deficiency; provide information on the dental management of patients with Noonan's syndrome;  and present a brief discussion of the recent associated genetic findings. A review of the common features of Noonan syndrome and Noonan-like central giant cell syndrome is also provided.


23239255 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['cmi' 'ns' 'case cmi' 'posterior' 'howev' 'abnorm' 'noonan syndrom'
 'noonan' 'abnorm howev' 'cmi patient' 'neurolog' 'case cmi patient'
 'chiari malform' 'chiari' 'believ' 'opinion' 'case' 'part' 'fossa'
 'genet mutat']

TEXT: Association between Noonan syndrome and Chiari I malformation: a case-based update. BACKGROUND: Chiari I malformations (CM-I) have been associated with a variety of developmental abnormalities in the literature. A few cases of CM-I in patients with Noonan syndrome (NS) have been reported; however, opinion remains divided as to whether the observed association is coincidental. DISCUSSION: Six previous cases of CM-I in patients with NS have been described in the literature. Many of these had other neurological abnormalities; however, neurological problems are not a prominent part of earlier descriptions of NS. A statistically significant association between NS and CM-I is difficult to obtain at present due to availability and logistical issues with scanning many asymptomatic patients. Although we believe a link exists between CM-I and NS, there is little understanding on how NS may cause CM-I. The most logical cause would be posterior fossa abnormality; however, the most common genetic mutation in NS tends to cause frontal and facial abnormalities, and the posterior fossa tends to be relatively spared. Other genetic mutations may also affect the posterior cranium and thus create the appropriate conditions for a CM-I to develop. ILLUSTRATIVE CASE: We report a case of CM-I in a 9-year-old patient with Noonan syndrome, severe scoliosis and syringomyelia. CONCLUSION: We believe that CM-I is a part of Noonan syndrome; however, statistical validation of this opinion is necessary.


28211982 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['loos anagen' 'hair' 'loos' 'anagen' 'syndromelik' 'loos anagen hair'
 'disord loos anagen' 'disord loos' 'anagen hair'
 'noonan syndromelik disord' 'syndromelik disord'
 'syndromelik disord loos' 'ppp1cb' 'ppro49arg' 'noonan syndromelik'
 'noonan' 'rasopathi' 'addit' 'phenotyp' 'similar']

TEXT: The recurrent PPP1CB mutation p.Pro49Arg in an additional Noonan-like syndrome individual: Broadening the clinical phenotype. We report on a 12-year-old Brazilian boy with the p.Pro49Arg mutation in PPP1CB, a novel gene associated with RASopathies. This is the fifth individual described, and the fourth presenting the same variant, suggesting a mutational hotspot. Phenotypically, he also showed the same hair pattern-sparse, thin, and with slow growing-, similar to the typical ectodermal finding observed in Noonan syndrome-like disorder with loose anagen hair. Additionally, he presented craniosynostosis, a rare clinical finding in RASopathies. This report gives further support that this novel RASopathy-PPP1CB-related Noonan syndrome with loose anagen hair-shares great similarity to Noonan syndrome-like disorder with loose anagen hair, and expands the phenotypic spectrum by adding the cranial vault abnormality. © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.


28267727 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['lost' 'biotech' 'opportun biotech' 'lost opportun'
 'lost opportun biotech' 'tpp' 'tpp lost' 'tpp lost opportun' 'axe'
 'axe tpp' 'axe tpp lost' 'opportun' 'epim' 'epiload polymer micel'
 'entiti neurofibromatosi 1' 'entiti neurofibromatosi'
 'entiti consider investig' 'epim alnm' 'entiti consider' 'epim alnm tnbc']

TEXT: Why axing TPP was a lost opportunity for biotech. 


28296849 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['epilepsi' 'epilepsi dilemma' 'dilemma' 'entiti' 'environment'
 'environ furthermor reveal' 'environ furthermor'
 'environ bardetbiedl syndrom' 'environ bardetbiedl' 'environ'
 'entiti neurofibromatosi 1' 'entiti neurofibromatosi'
 'entiti consider investig' 'entiti consider' 'entiti combin featur'
 'entiti combin' 'μm ± 041' 'environment factor genet'
 'entir understood although' 'entir understood']

TEXT: The Epilepsy Dilemma. 


28618888 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['moonlight' 'μm ± 041' 'entiti' 'environment' 'environ furthermor reveal'
 'environ furthermor' 'environ bardetbiedl syndrom' 'environ bardetbiedl'
 'environ' 'entiti neurofibromatosi 1' 'entiti neurofibromatosi'
 'entiti consider investig' 'entiti consider' 'entiti combin featur'
 'entiti combin' 'entir understood although' 'environment factor genet'
 'entir understood' 'entir protein complex' 'entir protein']

TEXT: Moonlight. 


28911804 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['rasopathi' 'lvnc' 'cardiomyopathi' 'noonan' 'ventricular noncompact'
 'left ventricular noncompact' 'ventricular noncompact cardiomyopathi'
 'left ventricular' 'ventricular' 'noncompact' 'noncompact cardiomyopathi'
 'left' 'report' '6' 'noonan syndrom' 'case report' 'case' 'syndrom'
 'associ lvnc report' 'type rasopathi']

TEXT: Case report: Left ventricular noncompaction cardiomyopathy and RASopathies. The following is a case report of 6 patients with Noonan syndrome (NS) and/or a related RASsopathy that also have evidence of left ventricular noncompaction cardiomyopathy (LVNC). Noonan syndrome,a type of RASopathy, is an autosomal dominant disorder that is typically associated with congenital heart defects and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. There have been minimal reports of Noonan syndrome or other RASopathy and the association of LVNC. This report promulgates 6 nonrelated cases of Noonan syndrome or unspecified RASopathy and LVNC.


29271604 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['raf1' 'noonan syndrom' 'noonan' 'mutat' 'kinas' 'locat outsid' 'outsid'
 'cr3' 'kinas activ' 'locat' 'syndrom' 'region' 'kinas activ segment'
 'craniofaci' 'raf1 mutat' 'gene associ noonan'
 'typic craniofaci dysmorph' 'raf' 'pgly361ala' 'activ segment']

TEXT: The novel RAF1 mutation p.(Gly361Ala) located outside the kinase domain of the CR3 region in two patients with Noonan syndrome, including one with a rare brain tumor. Noonan syndrome is characterized by typical craniofacial dysmorphism, postnatal growth retardation, congenital heart defect, and learning difficulties and belongs to the RASopathies, a group of neurodevelopmental disorders caused by germline mutations in genes encoding components of the RAS-MAPK pathway. Mutations in the RAF1 gene are associated with Noonan syndrome, with a high prevalence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). RAF1 mutations cluster in exons encoding the conserved region 2 (CR2), the kinase activation segment of the CR3 domain, and the C-terminus. We present two boys with Noonan syndrome and the identical de novo RAF1 missense variant c.1082G>C/p.(Gly361Ala) affecting the CR3, but located outside the kinase activation segment. The p.(Gly361Ala) mutation has been identified as a RAF1 allele conferring resistance to RAF inhibitors. This amino acid change favors a RAF1 conformation that allows for enhanced RAF dimerization and increased intrinsic kinase activity. Both patients with Noonan syndrome showed typical craniofacial dysmorphism, macrocephaly, and short stature. One individual developed HCM and was diagnosed with a disseminated oligodendroglial-like leptomeningeal tumor (DOLT) of childhood at the age of 9 years. While there is a well-established association of NS with malignant tumors, especially childhood hemato-oncological diseases, brain tumors have rarely been reported in Noonan syndrome. Our data demonstrate that mutation scanning of the entire coding region of genes associated with Noonan syndrome is mandatory not to miss rare variants located outside the known mutational hotspots.


8001324 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['syndrom updat' 'noonan syndrom updat' 'syndrom updat review'
 'review primari' 'review primari pediatrician' 'updat review'
 'primari pediatrician' 'updat review primari' 'updat' 'pediatrician'
 'primari' 'noonan syndrom' 'noonan' 'review' 'syndrom'
 'entir equival nevertheless' 'entir protein' 'entir protein complex'
 'entir understood' 'entiti']

TEXT: Noonan syndrome. An update and review for the primary pediatrician. 



=======================================

Cluster #:1

28377481 :TNBC
Top TF-IDF terms:
['til' 'mutat' 'immunogen' 'nonsynonym mutat' 'nonsynonym' 'cancer' 'isol'
 'immunogen mutat' 'patient' 'recogn' 'breast cancer' 'breast'
 'uniqu nonsynonym' 'uniqu nonsynonym mutat' 'autolog' 'natur'
 'mutationreact til' 'mutationreact' 'adopt' 'adopt cell']

TEXT: Characterization of an Immunogenic Mutation in a Patient with Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. Purpose: The administration of autologous tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) can mediate durable tumor regressions in patients with melanoma likely based on the recognition of immunogenic somatic mutations expressed by the cancer. There are limited data regarding the immunogenicity of mutations in breast cancer. We sought to identify immunogenic nonsynonymous mutations in a patient with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) to identify and isolate mutation-reactive TILs for possible use in adoptive cell transfer.Experimental Design: A TNBC metastasis was resected for TIL generation and whole-exome sequencing. Tandem minigenes or long 25-mer peptides encoding selected mutations were electroporated or pulsed onto autologous antigen-presenting cells, and reactivity of TIL was screened by upregulation of CD137 and IFNγ ELISPOT. The nature of the T-cell response against a unique nonsynonymous mutation was characterized.Results: We identified 72 nonsynonymous mutations from the tumor of a patient with TNBC. CD4+ and HLA-DRB1*1501-restricted TILs isolated from this tumor recognized a single mutation in RBPJ (recombination signal binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa J region). Analysis of 16 metastatic sites revealed that the mutation was ubiquitously present in all samples.Conclusions: Breast cancers can express naturally processed and presented unique nonsynonymous mutations that are recognized by a patient's immune system. TILs recognizing these immunogenic mutations can be isolated from a patient's tumor, suggesting that adoptive cell transfer of mutation-reactive TILs could be a viable treatment option for patients with breast cancer. Clin Cancer Res; 23(15); 4347-53. ©2017 AACR.


10022033 :alzheimer’s
Top TF-IDF terms:
['apo' 'group' 'ad' 'reagent' 'clinic signific' 'capabl' 'gene type'
 'apo gene type' 'apo gene' 'reagent capabl' 'genotyp' 'measur' 'alzheim'
 'alzheim diseas' 'type' 'rate' 'clinic' 'signific' 'studi' 'basic clinic']

TEXT: Basic and clinical studies on ApoE gene typing by line probe assay (LiPA) as a biological marker for Alzheimer's disease and related disorders: multicenter study in Japan. The fundamental reagent capability and clinical significance of ApoE gene typing has been investigated. The result of each test shows that the reagent capability satisfied the expected standard. Four-hundred thirty-nine samples classified into three groups (Alzheimer's disease (AD), other types of dementia and nondementia) were measured to examine the clinical significance. The rate of epsilon 4 genotype of each group was 31.5%, 14.6%, 10.4%, respectively. The AD group had a higher rate than the other groups (p < 0.001). The measurement of ApoE genotype is suggested to be useful as one of the guidelines in the diagnosis of AD.


10025444 :alzheimer’s
Top TF-IDF terms:
['matter' 'gray matter' 'gray' 'ad' 'elderli' 'concentr'
 'nacetyl compound' 'nacetyl' 'cholin' 'patient ad' 'creatin' 'compound'
 'control' 'group' 'magnet reson spectroscop' 'creatin plu' 'plu'
 'plu phosphocreatin' 'elderli control' 'control group']

TEXT: In vivo brain concentrations of N-acetyl compounds, creatine, and choline in Alzheimer disease. BACKGROUND: Alzheimer disease (AD) and normal aging result in cortical gray matter volume deficits. The extent to which the remaining cortex is functionally compromised can be estimated in vivo with magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging. OBJECTIVE: To assess the effects of age and dementia on gray matter and white matter concentrations of 3 metabolites visible in the proton spectrum: N-acetyl compounds, present only in living neurons; creatine plus phosphocreatine, reflecting high-energy phosphate metabolism; and choline, increasing with membrane synthesis and degradation. METHOD: Fifteen healthy young individuals, 19 healthy elderly individuals, and 16 patients with AD underwent 3-dimensional magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging and memory and language testing. RESULTS: Gray matter N-acetyl compound concentrations (signal intensity corrected for the amount of brain tissue contributing to the magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging signal) was significantly reduced only in patients with AD, even though both the AD and elderly control groups had substantial gray matter volume deficits relative to the young control group. Both the healthy elderly and AD groups had abnormally high gray matter creatine plus phosphocreatine concentrations. Gray matter choline concentrations were higher in the elderly than the younger controls, and even higher in the AD group than in the elderly control group. Functional significance of these findings was supported by correlations between poorer performance on recognition memory tests and lower gray matter N-acetyl compounds in elderly controls and higher gray matter creatine plus phosphocreatine and choline concentrations in patients with AD. CONCLUSION: Cortical gray matter volume deficits in patients with AD are accompanied by disease-related increases in gray matter choline concentrations suggestive of cellular degeneration and reduced N-acetyl compound concentrations, with possible effects on behavioral function.


10025576 :alzheimer’s
Top TF-IDF terms:
['tau' 'csf' 'csf tau' 'frontotempor dementia' 'frontotempor' 'dementia'
 'csf tau concentr' 'pgml' 'patient frontotempor' 'tau concentr'
 'patient frontotempor dementia' 'concentr' 'alzheim' 'alzheim diseas'
 'measur' 'diseas' 'control' 'fluid' 'dementia compar'
 'frontotempor dementia compar']

TEXT: Increased tau in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of tau protein were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay which measures both normal and hyperphosphorylated tau. Levels of CSF tau were measured in 17 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 23 patients with frontotemporal dementia, and were compared to age-matched healthy controls. The CSF tau concentration in control subjects was 198+/-49 pg/ml and no relationship was found between age and CSF tau concentrations in these subjects. CSF tau concentrations were significantly raised in patients with both Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia when compared to healthy controls (802+/-381 pg/ml, P<0.001; 612+/-382 pg/ml, P<0.05, respectively). In neither disease did CSF tau correlate with disease severity as assessed by the Mini Mental State Examination score (MMSE). This study shows that CSF tau is significantly raised in patients with frontotemporal dementia.


20578946 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['ptpn11' 'kra' 'gene' 'kra gene' 'ns' 'ptpn11 gene' 'ptpn11 gene mutat'
 'noonanlik syndrom' 'noonanlik' 'gene mutat' 'p' 'polymorph'
 'found kra gene' 'noonan noonanlik syndrom' 'noonan noonanlik'
 'found kra' 'ptpn11 kra gene' 'ptpn11 kra' 'patient' 'mutat']

TEXT: PTPN11 and KRAS gene analysis in patients with Noonan and Noonan-like syndromes. Noonan and Noonan-like syndromes are disorders of dysregulation of the rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (RAS)-mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. In Noonan syndrome (NS), four genes of this pathway (PTPN11, SOS1, RAF1, and KRAS) are responsible for roughly 70% of the cases. We analyzed PTPN11 and KRAS genes by bidirectional sequencing in 95 probands with NS and 29 with Noonan-like syndromes, including previously reported patients already screened for PTPN11 gene mutations. In the new patients with NS, 20/46 (43%) showed a PTPN11 gene mutation, two of them novel. In our total cohort, patients with NS and a PTPN11 mutation presented significantly higher prevalence of short stature (p = 0.03) and pulmonary valve stenosis (p = 0.01), and lower prevalence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (p = 0.01). Only a single gene alteration, of uncertain role, was found in the KRAS gene in an NS patient also presenting a PTPN11 gene mutation. We further analyzed the influence in clinical variability of three frequent polymorphisms found in the KRAS gene and no statistically significant difference was observed among the frequency of clinical findings regarding the studied polymorphisms.


24939608 :Noonan
Top TF-IDF terms:
['contribut rit1 mutat' 'contribut rit1' 'new case evid' 'four new case'
 'four new' 'evid heterogen' 'mutat pathogenesi'
 'mutat pathogenesi noonan' 'noonan syndrom four' 'new case'
 'case evid heterogen' 'case evid' 'rit1 mutat pathogenesi'
 'syndrom four new' 'rit1 mutat' 'syndrom four' 'rit1'
 'pathogenesi noonan syndrom' 'pathogenesi noonan' 'evid']

TEXT: Contribution of RIT1 mutations to the pathogenesis of Noonan syndrome: four new cases and further evidence of heterogeneity. 


12677556 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['loci' 'bbs1' 'allel' 'bb' 'genet' 'interact' 'transmiss' 'bb loci'
 'interact genet' 'oligogen' 'famili' 'mutat' 'analys' 'inherit' 'indic'
 'nonmendelian' 'particip' 'bbs2' 'diseas transmiss' 'mutant allel']

TEXT: Genetic interaction of BBS1 mutations with alleles at other BBS loci can result in non-Mendelian Bardet-Biedl syndrome. Bardet-Biedl syndrome is a genetically and clinically heterogeneous disorder caused by mutations in at least seven loci (BBS1-7), five of which are cloned (BBS1, BBS2, BBS4, BBS6, and BBS7). Genetic and mutational analyses have indicated that, in some families, a combination of three mutant alleles at two loci (triallelic inheritance) is necessary for pathogenesis. To date, four of the five known BBS loci have been implicated in this mode of oligogenic disease transmission. We present a comprehensive analysis of the spectrum, distribution, and involvement in non-Mendelian trait transmission of mutant alleles in BBS1, the most common BBS locus. Analyses of 259 independent families segregating a BBS phenotype indicate that BBS1 participates in complex inheritance and that, in different families, mutations in BBS1 can interact genetically with mutations at each of the other known BBS genes, as well as at unknown loci, to cause the phenotype. Consistent with this model, we identified homozygous M390R alleles, the most frequent BBS1 mutation, in asymptomatic individuals in two families. Moreover, our statistical analyses indicate that the prevalence of the M390R allele in the general population is consistent with an oligogenic rather than a recessive model of disease transmission. The distribution of BBS oligogenic alleles also indicates that all BBS loci might interact genetically with each other, but some genes, especially BBS2 and BBS6, are more likely to participate in triallelic inheritance, suggesting a variable ability of the BBS proteins to interact genetically with each other.


15231740 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['cilia' 'bbs8' 'elegan' 'ift' 'bbs7 bbs8' 'bbs7' 'protein' 'bb'
 'intraflagellar transport' 'intraflagellar' 'result cilia' 'elegan bbs7'
 'elegan bbs7 bbs8' 'c elegan' 'c' 'function' 'defect' 'transport'
 'bb protein' 'compromis intraflagellar transport']

TEXT: Loss of C. elegans BBS-7 and BBS-8 protein function results in cilia defects and compromised intraflagellar transport. Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a genetically heterogeneous developmental disorder whose molecular basis is largely unknown. Here, we show that mutations in the Caenorhabditis elegans bbs-7 and bbs-8 genes cause structural and functional defects in cilia. C. elegans BBS proteins localize predominantly at the base of cilia, and like proteins involved in intraflagellar transport (IFT), a process necessary for cilia biogenesis and maintenance, move bidirectionally along the ciliary axoneme. Importantly, we demonstrate that BBS-7 and BBS-8 are required for the normal localization/motility of the IFT proteins OSM-5/Polaris and CHE-11, and to a notably lesser extent, CHE-2. We propose that BBS proteins play important, selective roles in the assembly and/or function of IFT particle components. Our findings also suggest that some of the cardinal and secondary symptoms of BBS, such as obesity, diabetes, cardiomyopathy, and learning defects may result from cilia dysfunction.


23716571 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['actin' 'cell' 'cytoskeleton' '±' 'bbs4' 'cilia' 'rhoa' 'regul actin'
 'cilia length' 'length' 'regul' 'form' 'protein' 'bb protein' 'wt cell'
 '00001' 'wt cell versu' 'cell p' 'bbs4 null'
 'bardetbiedl syndrom protein']

TEXT: Bardet-Biedl syndrome proteins control the cilia length through regulation of actin polymerization. Primary cilia are cellular appendages important for signal transduction and sensing the environment. Bardet-Biedl syndrome proteins form a complex that is important for several cytoskeleton-related processes such as ciliogenesis, cell migration and division. However, the mechanisms by which BBS proteins may regulate the cytoskeleton remain unclear. We discovered that Bbs4- and Bbs6-deficient renal medullary cells display a characteristic behaviour comprising poor migration, adhesion and division with an inability to form lamellipodial and filopodial extensions. Moreover, fewer mutant cells were ciliated [48% ± 6 for wild-type (WT) cells versus 23% ± 7 for Bbs4 null cells; P < 0.0001] and their cilia were shorter (2.55 μm ± 0.41 for WT cells versus 2.16 μm ± 0.23 for Bbs4 null cells; P < 0.0001). While the microtubular cytoskeleton and cortical actin were intact, actin stress fibre formation was severely disrupted, forming abnormal apical stress fibre aggregates. Furthermore, we observed over-abundant focal adhesions (FAs) in Bbs4-, Bbs6- and Bbs8-deficient cells. In view of these findings and the role of RhoA in regulation of actin filament polymerization, we showed that RhoA-GTP levels were highly upregulated in the absence of Bbs proteins. Upon treatment of Bbs4-deficient cells with chemical inhibitors of RhoA, we were able to restore the cilia length and number as well as the integrity of the actin cytoskeleton. Together these findings indicate that Bbs proteins play a central role in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton and control the cilia length through alteration of RhoA levels.


24316073 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['npy2r' 'neuron' 'cilia' 'energi' 'mice' 'signal' 'receptor' 'ciliari'
 'npi receptor' 'neuron primari' 'mice fail' 'neuropeptid'
 'neuron primari cilia' 'npi' 'pathway signal' 'gpcr' 'fail'
 'primari cilia' 'bb' 'local']

TEXT: Neuropeptide Y family receptors traffic via the Bardet-Biedl syndrome pathway to signal in neuronal primary cilia. Human monogenic obesity syndromes, including Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS), implicate neuronal primary cilia in regulation of energy homeostasis. Cilia in hypothalamic neurons have been hypothesized to sense and regulate systemic energy status, but the molecular mechanism of this signaling remains unknown. Here, we report a comprehensive localization screen of 42 G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) revealing seven ciliary GPCRs, including the neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptors NPY2R and NPY5R. We show that mice modeling BBS disease or obese tubby mice fail to localize NPY2R to cilia in the hypothalamus and that BBS mutant mice fail to activate c-fos or decrease food intake in response to the NPY2R ligand PYY3-36. We find that cells with ciliary NPY2R show augmented PYY3-36-dependent cAMP signaling. Our data demonstrate that ciliary targeting of NPY receptors is important for controlling energy balance in mammals, revealing a physiologically defined ligand-receptor pathway signaling within neuronal cilia. 


24611735 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['mutat' 'bbs10' 'cardiovascular' 'truncat' 'p' 'bbs1' 'mutat p'
 'truncat mutat p' 'truncat mutat' 'patient' 'missens' 'mutat bbs1'
 'homozyg' 'homozyg truncat mutat' 'homozyg truncat' 'risk' 'higher'
 'patient homozyg' 'mutat bbs10' 'cardiovascular diseas']

TEXT: Genetic predictors of cardiovascular morbidity in Bardet-Biedl syndrome. Bardet-Biedl syndrome is a rare ciliopathy characterized by retinal dystrophy, obesity, intellectual disability, polydactyly, hypogonadism and renal impairment. Patients are at high risk of cardiovascular disease. Mutations in BBS1 and BBS10 account for more than half of those with molecular confirmation of the diagnosis. To elucidate genotype-phenotype correlations with respect to cardiovascular risk indicators 50 patients with mutations in BBS1 were compared with 19 patients harbouring BBS10 mutations. All patients had truncating, missense or compound missense/truncating mutations. The effect of genotype and mutation type was analysed. C-reactive protein was higher in those with mutations in BBS10 and homozygous truncating mutations (p = 0.013 and p = 0.002, respectively). Patients with mutations in BBS10 had higher levels of C peptide than those with mutations in BBS1 (p = 0.043). Triglyceride levels were significantly elevated in patients with homozygous truncating mutations (p = 0.048). Gamma glutamyl transferase was higher in patients with homozygous truncating mutations (p = 0.007) and heterozygous missense and truncating mutations (p = 0.002) than those with homozygous missense mutations. The results are compared with clinical cardiovascular risk factors. Patients with missense mutations in BBS1 have lower biochemical cardiovascular disease markers compared with patients with BBS10 and other BBS1 mutations. This could contribute to stratification of the clinical service.


24695551 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['bbs4' 'pnc' 'cilia' 'amygdala' 'hippocampu' 'hippocampu amygdala'
 'bbs4 mice' 'aciii' 'alter' 'anim' 'mice' 'neuron' 'brain' 'model'
 'alter pnc' 'anim model' 'area brain' 'amygdala bbs4'
 'hippocampu amygdala bbs4' 'amygdala bbs4 mice']

TEXT: Ciliopathy is differentially distributed in the brain of a Bardet-Biedl syndrome mouse model. Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a genetically heterogeneous inherited human disorder displaying a pleotropic phenotype. Many of the symptoms characterized in the human disease have been reproduced in animal models carrying deletions or knock-in mutations of genes causal for the disorder. Thinning of the cerebral cortex, enlargement of the lateral and third ventricles, and structural changes in cilia are among the pathologies documented in these animal models. Ciliopathy is of particular interest in light of recent studies that have implicated primary neuronal cilia (PNC) in neuronal signal transduction. In the present investigation, we tested the hypothesis that areas of the brain responsible for learning and memory formation would differentially exhibit PNC abnormalities in animals carrying a deletion of the Bbs4 gene (Bbs4-/-). Immunohistochemical localization of adenylyl cyclase-III (ACIII), a marker restricted to PNC, revealed dramatic alterations in PNC morphology and a statistically significant reduction in number of immunopositive cilia in the hippocampus and amygdala of Bbs4-/- mice compared to wild type (WT) littermates. Western blot analysis confirmed the decrease of ACIII levels in the hippocampus and amygdala of Bbs4-/- mice, and electron microscopy demonstrated pathological alterations of PNC in the hippocampus and amygdala. Importantly, no neuronal loss was found within the subregions of amygdala and hippocampus sampled in Bbs4-/- mice and there were no statistically significant alterations of ACIII immunopositive cilia in other areas of the brain not known to contribute to the BBS phenotype. Considered with data documenting a role of cilia in signal transduction these findings support the conclusion that alterations in cilia structure or neurochemical phenotypes may contribute to the cognitive deficits observed in the Bbs4-/- mouse mode. 


26586152 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['olfactori' 'ob' 'olfactori dysfunct' 'mri' 'evalu' 'dysfunct' 'sr' 'sm'
 'bb patient' 'bb' 'ob volum' 'radiologist' 'visual' 'visual evalu' 'case'
 'imag' 'volum' 'mri imag' 'olfactori bulb' 'volum evalu']

TEXT: Value of MRI olfactory bulb evaluation in the assessment of olfactory dysfunction in Bardet-Biedl syndrome. Olfactory bulb (OB) volume evaluation by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been demonstrated to be related to olfactory dysfunction in many different diseases. Olfactory dysfunction is often overlooked in Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) patients and is rarely objectively evaluated by MRI. We present a series of 20 BBS patients with olfactory dysfunction. The OB was evaluated separately and blindly by two radiologists (SR and SM) with 3 Tesla MRI imaging comparatively to 12 normal control subjects by global visual evaluation and by quantitative measurement of OB volume. In the 12 control cases OB visual evaluation was considered as normal in all cases for radiologist (SR) and in 10 cases for radiologist (SM). In the 20 BBS patients, OB visual evaluation was considered as abnormal in 18 cases for SR and in all cases for SM. OB volumetric evaluation for SR and SM in BBS patients was able to provide significant correlation between BBS and olfactory dysfunction. This study indicates that OB volume evaluation by MRI imaging like structural MRI scan for gray matter modifications demonstrates that olfactory dysfunction in BBS patients is a constant and cardinal symptom integrated in a genetical syndrome with peripheral and central olfactory structure alterations.


27442694 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['obes' 'ciliopathi' 'polydactyli' 'weight gain' 'gain' 'weight' 'bb'
 'boy' 'bardetbiedl syndrom' 'bardetbiedl' 'factor' 'syndrom' 'genet'
 'group rare disord' 'syndrom requir multispecialist' 'syndrom unlabel'
 'primari cilia clinic' 'hypogonadotroph hypogonad'
 'hypogonadotroph hypogonad intellectu' 'disord associ']

TEXT: Polydactyly and obesity - the clinical manifestation of ciliopathy: a boy with Bardet-Biedl syndrome. UNLABELLED: The prevalence of obesity in children is still rising all over the world. The most common reason for significant weight gain is a high-calorie diet and decreased physical activity. However, apart from environmental factors, genetic predisposition plays a crucial role in the pathomechanism of obesity. We present the case of a boy with pathological obesity and Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS). BBS is a ciliopathy, a heterogeneous group of rare disorders associated with defects in primary cilia. Other clinical signs and symptoms of BBS are: polydactyly, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism, intellectual disability, rod-cone dystrophy, genitourinary and renal abnormalities. CONCLUSIONS: genetic factors of rapid weight gain should be taken into consideration in a child with obesity. Polydactyly can be associated with ciliopathy. A patient with Bardet-Biedl syndrome requires multi-specialist care.


27488999 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['defect' 'renal' 'urin' 'concentr dilut' 'urinari' 'dilut' 'patient'
 'uaqp2' 'dilut defect' 'water' 'concentr dilut defect' '41' 'concentr'
 'combin' 'ddavp' 'renal phenotyp bardetbiedl' 'urinari concentr dilut'
 'urinari concentr' 'hyposthenuria' 'phenotyp bardetbiedl syndrom']

TEXT: Renal phenotype in Bardet-Biedl syndrome: a combined defect of urinary concentration and dilution is associated with defective urinary AQP2 and UMOD excretion. The renal phenotype in Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is highly variable. The present study describes renal findings in 41 BBS patients and analyzes the pathogenesis of hyposthenuria, the most common renal dysfunction. Five of 41 patients (12%) showed an estimated glomerular filtration rate < 60 ml·min-1·1.73 m-2 Urine protein and urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio were over 200 and 30 mg/g in 9/24 and 7/23 patients, respectively. Four of 41 patients showed no renal anomalies on ultrasound. Twenty of 34 patients had hyposthenuria in the absence of renal insufficiency. In all 8 of the hyposthenuric patients studied, dDAVP failed to elevate urine osmolality (Uosm), suggesting a nephrogenic origin. Interestingly, water loading (WL) did not result in a significant reduction of Uosm, indicating combined concentrating and diluting defects. dDAVP infusion induced a significant increase of plasma Factor VIII and von Willebrand Factor levels, supporting normal function of the type 2 vasopressin receptor at least in endothelial cells. While urinary aquaporin 2 (u-AQP2) abundance was not different between patients and controls at baseline, the dDAVP-induced increased u-AQP2 and the WL-induced reduction of u-AQP2 were blunted in patients with a combined concentrating and diluting defect, suggesting a potential role of AQP2 in the defective regulation of water absorption. Urine Uromodulin excretion was reduced in all hyposthenuric patients, suggesting a thick ascending limb defect. Interestingly, renal Na, Cl, Ca, but not K handling was impaired after acute WL but not at basal. In summary, BBS patients show combined urinary concentration and dilution defects; a thick ascending limb and collecting duct tubulopathy may underlie impaired water handling.


28174811 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['bb' 'genit' 'hypogonad genit' 'genit malform' 'hypogonad genit malform'
 'bb gene mutat' 'import' 'malform' 'ovarian' 'repres' 'gene mutat'
 'patient' 'case' 'similar' 'bb gene' 'age' 'hypogonad' 'diagnos' 'clinic'
 'consid']

TEXT: Ovarian teratomas in a patient with Bardet-Biedl syndrome, a rare association. Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) represents a rare ciliopathy recessive autosomal inherited. The main clinical features are retinal dystrophy, postaxial polydactyly, obesity, different degrees of cognitive deficit, renal impairment, hypogonadism and genital malformations. The genetic explanation consists in BBS genes mutations, which encode modified proteins, altering the function of the immotile cilia. As a multitude of BBS genes mutations were described, the phenotypic aspect of these disorders varies according to that. We present the case of a 22 years old female patient, known with BBS since the age of 11 and which was diagnosed and operated for bilateral ovarian dermoid cysts, at the age of 21. We did not find a similar case in literature, regarding the association between the two disorders. We consider that our case points towards the importance of periodic imagistic evaluations [magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT) or ultrasound] of these patients, not only clinical and biological. Usually, the moment they are diagnosed with hypogonadism or genital malformations (in childhood or adolescence), the genital evaluation is neglected thereafter. We also consider that our therapeutic approach can be helpful in other similar clinical situations. Another important conclusion is represented by the importance of genetic counseling of the relatives of a BBS patient, unfortunately insufficiently provided in our region.


29039417 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['systemat' 'variant' 'profil' 'complex' 'mutat across'
 'interactiondisrupt' 'resolut' 'variat' 'aminoacid resolut' 'aminoacid'
 'protein complex' 'across' 'protein' 'function' 'genet'
 'nucleotideresolut' 'program mutagenesi sequenc' 'hundr gene urgent'
 'nucleotideresolut variat' 'nucleotideresolut variat scale']

TEXT: Protein interaction perturbation profiling at amino-acid resolution. The identification of genomic variants in healthy and diseased individuals continues to rapidly outpace our ability to functionally annotate these variants. Techniques that both systematically assay the functional consequences of nucleotide-resolution variation and can scale to hundreds of genes are urgently required. We designed a sensitive yeast two-hybrid-based 'off switch' for positive selection of interaction-disruptive variants from complex genetic libraries. Combined with massively parallel programmed mutagenesis and a sequencing readout, this method enables systematic profiling of protein-interaction determinants at amino-acid resolution. We defined >1,000 interaction-disrupting amino acid mutations across eight subunits of the BBSome, the major human cilia protein complex associated with the pleiotropic genetic disorder Bardet-Biedl syndrome. These high-resolution interaction-perturbation profiles provide a framework for interpreting patient-derived mutations across the entire protein complex and thus highlight how the impact of disease variation on interactome networks can be systematically assessed.


8270381 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['renal involv' 'retinopathi' 'children' 'renal' 'two' 'syndrom' 'clinic'
 'involv' 'featur' 'bardetbiedl syndrom' 'bardetbiedl'
 'obes mental retard' 'obes mental' 'function abnorm'
 'clarifi problem four' 'function abnorm found' 'consider terminolog'
 'consider terminolog confus' 'syndrom lm' 'syndrom lm consider']

TEXT: Clinical aspects of renal involvement in Bardet-Biedl syndrome. The Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS), which consists of polydactyly, obesity, mental retardation, pigmentary retinopathy and hypogonadism has been known since 1922, but due to the great similarity to the clinical manifestations of the Laurence-Moon syndrome (LMS) there is a considerable terminological confusion in the medical literature. An attempt is made at clarifying the problem. Four children from two families have been observed. There were inter- and intrafamilial variabilities of the expression and severity of the particular features, but retinopathy and structural and/or functional abnormalities were found in 100%. The combination of the two can serve as an easy clinical screening for diagnosis of the disease. Renal involvement is considered to be a cardinal feature of the syndrome. The most common and earliest symptoms are polydypso-polyuria and reduced concentrating ability, which may lead to some diagnostic difficulties, especially in infancy. Three children have end-stage renal disease and two of them are on maintenance haemodialysis, which they tolerate well.


8667262 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['individu laurencemoonbardetbiedl' 'lmbb syndrom' 'lmbb' 'teeth'
 'laurencemoonbardetbiedl' 'saliva' '29' 'sign' 'subject'
 'retin dystrophi' 'dystrophi' 'retin' 'higher' 'individu' 'normal'
 'syndrom' '29 individu laurencemoonbardetbiedl' 'seem' 'seem exist'
 'seem exist disturb']

TEXT: Anomalies in the permanent dentition and other oral findings in 29 individuals with Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl syndrome. This paper reports a clinical and roentgenological examination of the teeth, jaws and saliva of 29 Scandinavian individuals with Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl (LMBB) syndrome, whose cardinal signs are retinal dystrophy, polydactyly, obesity, hypogenitalism and mental retardation. All subjects had at least three of these signs, including retinal dystrophy. Compared with normal subjects, the group had statistically significantly higher frequencies of hypodontia, small teeth and short roots. In addition, the saliva showed a buffering capacity higher than normal. In conclusion, there seem to exist disturbances of both dental and skeletal formation in the LMBB syndrome.


8712208 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['intradialyt' 'intradialyt hypotens' 'hypotens' 'midodrin'
 'recurr intradialyt hypotens' 'recurr intradialyt' 'recurr'
 'activ metabolit deglymidodrin' 'pharmacokinet' 'paradox'
 'metabolit deglymidodrin' 'deglymidodrin' 'activ metabolit' 'metabolit'
 'activ' 'renal' 'patient' 'respons' 'pharmacokinet patient'
 'increas intradialyt']

TEXT: Midodrine efficacy and pharmacokinetics in a patient with recurrent intradialytic hypotension. Recurrent intradialytic hypotension, a complication of hemodialysis, is a consequence of an inadequate compensatory response or a paradoxic response to ultrafiltration-induced volume reduction. We report the use of midodrine, an alpha agonist, in an 18-year-old man with Bardet-Biedl syndrome and recurrent intradialytic hypotension. The clinical features of the intradialytic hypotensive spells are consistent with a paradoxic withdrawal of sympathetic activity, although an underlying abnormality in autonomic dysfunction cannot be excluded. Midodrine significantly increased the intradialytic blood pressure and decreased the intradialytic hypotensive episodes requiring intervention. The pharmacokinetic characteristics of the prodrug midodrine and the active metabolite de-glymidodrine in this patient with end-stage renal disease approximate those reported for patients with normal renal function. However, the prolonged terminal half-life for the active metabolite, de-glymidodrine, warrants careful administration in patients with renal failure.



=======================================

Cluster #:0

17574030 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['cilium' 'bb' 'bbsome' 'membran' 'complex' 'satellit' 'primari cilium'
 'ciliari membran' 'rab8' 'centriolar satellit' 'centriolar' 'rab8gtp'
 'promot' 'ciliari' 'bb protein' 'local' 'function' 'primari'
 'requir ciliogenesi' 'membran biogenesi primari']

TEXT: A core complex of BBS proteins cooperates with the GTPase Rab8 to promote ciliary membrane biogenesis. Primary cilium dysfunction underlies the pathogenesis of Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS), a genetic disorder whose symptoms include obesity, retinal degeneration, and nephropathy. However, despite the identification of 12 BBS genes, the molecular basis of BBS remains elusive. Here we identify a complex composed of seven highly conserved BBS proteins. This complex, the BBSome, localizes to nonmembranous centriolar satellites in the cytoplasm but also to the membrane of the cilium. Interestingly, the BBSome is required for ciliogenesis but is dispensable for centriolar satellite function. This ciliogenic function is mediated in part by the Rab8 GDP/GTP exchange factor, which localizes to the basal body and contacts the BBSome. Strikingly, Rab8(GTP) enters the primary cilium and promotes extension of the ciliary membrane. Conversely, preventing Rab8(GTP) production blocks ciliation in cells and yields characteristic BBS phenotypes in zebrafish. Our data reveal that BBS may be caused by defects in vesicular transport to the cilium.


21246219 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['bb' 'kidney' 'phenotyp variabl' 'ciliari' 'phenotyp' 'genet' 'gene'
 'dysfunct' 'variabl' 'heterogen' 'caus' 'syndrom' 'bardetbiedl syndrom'
 'bardetbiedl' 'causal modifi allel' 'obes retin defect'
 'ciliopathi phenotyp' 'ciliopathi phenotyp complex'
 'syndrom genet heterogen' 'particular kidney diseas']

TEXT: Phenotypic variability of Bardet-Biedl syndrome: focusing on the kidney. Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a multisystemic developmental disorder diagnosed on the basis of the presence of obesity, retinal defects, polydactyly, hypogonadism, renal dysfunction, and learning disabilities. The syndrome is genetically heterogeneous with 14 BBS genes identified to date. Since the cloning of the first gene in 2000, a combination of genetic, in vitro, and in vivo studies have highlighted ciliary dysfunction as a primary cause of BBS pathology. Pleiotropy of ciliopathy phenotypes and complex genetic interactions between causal and modifying alleles of ciliary genes contribute to phenotypic variability. In particular, kidney disease in BBS is clinically heterogeneous, but is now recognized as a cardinal feature and a major cause of mortality in BBS.


25458167 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['pyocel' 'bardetbiedl syndrom' 'bardetbiedl' 'bullosa'
 'pyocel bardetbiedl syndrom' 'pyocel bardetbiedl' 'concha bullosa'
 'concha' 'syndrom' 'secondari' 'symptom' 'turbin' 'turbin pyocel'
 'obes learn' 'consider investig' 'caus immotil cilia'
 'consider investig patient' 'turbin pyocel bardetbiedl'
 'middl turbin pyocel' 'syndrom larg']

TEXT: Bardet-Biedl syndrome and a large concha bullosa pyocele. Bardet-Biedl syndrome is a rare disease involving rode cone dystrophy, polydactyly, obesity, learning disabilities, hypogonadism and renal anomalies, symptoms caused by immotile cilia dysfunction. We report the first case of this syndrome in a teenager with an endonasal mass secondary to pyocele of a concha bullosa. The patient was treated successfully with endoscopic sinus surgery. Nasal obstruction secondary to a middle turbinate pyocele in Bardet-Biedl syndrome has not been described before. The pediatrician and the rhinologist should take this entity into consideration when investigating patients with Bardet-Biedl syndrome and sinonasal symptoms. 


25672202 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['biedl syndrom' 'bardet' 'biedl' 'bardet biedl syndrom' 'bardet biedl'
 'laurenc moon' 'laurenc moon bardet' 'moon bardet biedl' 'moon bardet'
 'moon' 'laurenc' 'anaemia' 'syndrom' 'anaemia laurenc'
 'biedl syndrom anaemia' 'genet disord consanguin' 'syndrom red'
 'syndrom anaemia laurenc' 'syndrom anaemia' 'overlook patient came']

TEXT: Laurence Moon Bardet Biedl Syndrome with anaemia. Laurence Moon Bardet Biedl Syndrome is a rare genetic disorder. Consanguineous marriage is usually the common cause. Principal features of Bardet Biedl Syndrome are red cone dystrophy, obesity, polydactyl, hypogonadism and renal anomalies. The diagnosis was overlooked in our patient until he came in our hospital. We here report an infrequent case of autosomal recessive disorder with Anaemia.


26103456 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['ir' 'insulin' 'bb' 'bb protein' 'surfac' 'insulin receptor' 'traffick'
 'protein' 'cell surfac' 'express' 'surfac express' 'receptor' 'metabol'
 'cell' 'bardet biedl syndrom' 'bardet' 'biedl syndrom' 'bardet biedl'
 'biedl' 'mechan']

TEXT: Regulation of Insulin Receptor Trafficking by Bardet Biedl Syndrome Proteins. Insulin and its receptor are critical for the regulation of metabolic functions, but the mechanisms underlying insulin receptor (IR) trafficking to the plasma membrane are not well understood. Here, we show that Bardet Biedl Syndrome (BBS) proteins are necessary for IR localization to the cell surface. We demonstrate that the IR interacts physically with BBS proteins, and reducing the expression of BBS proteins perturbs IR expression in the cell surface. We show the consequence of disrupting BBS proteins for whole body insulin action and glucose metabolism using mice lacking different BBS genes. These findings demonstrate the importance of BBS proteins in underlying IR cell surface expression. Our data identify defects in trafficking and localization of the IR as a novel mechanism accounting for the insulin resistance commonly associated with human BBS. This is supported by the reduced surface expression of the IR in fibroblasts derived from patients bearing the M390R mutation in the BBS1 gene. 


26846096 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['bb' 'famili' 'bbs9' 'gene' 'pakistani' 'pakistani famili' 'bb syndrom'
 'bbs9 gene' 'mutat' 'analysi' 'interv' 'homozygos map identifi'
 'pser100leufs24' 'pthb1' 'pthb1 domain' 'disabl renal' 'homozygos'
 'homozygos map' 'map identifi' 'homozyg interv']

TEXT: Homozygosity mapping identified a novel protein truncating mutation (p.Ser100Leufs*24) of the BBS9 gene in a consanguineous Pakistani family with Bardet Biedl syndrome. BACKGROUND: Bardet Biedl Syndrome (BBS) is a rare condition of multi-organ dysfunction with characteristic clinical features of retinal degeneration, truncal obesity, postaxial polydactyly, genital anomaly, intellectual disability and renal dysfunction. It is a hetero-genetic disorder and nineteen BBS genes have been discovered so far. METHODS: Whole genome SNP genotyping was performed by using CytoScan® 750 K array (Affymetrix). Subsequently, the segregation of the disease locus in the whole family was carried out by genotyping STS markers within the homozygous interval. Finally, the mutation analysis was performed by Sanger DNA sequencing. RESULTS: In the present molecular study a consanguineous Pakistani family, with autosomal recessive BBS, was analyzed. The clinical analysis of affected individuals presented with synpolydactyly, obesity, intellectual disability, renal abnormality and retinitis pigmentosa. The presented phenotype was consistent with the major features of BBS syndrome. Homozygosity mapping identified a common homozygous interval within the known BBS9 locus. Sequence analysis of BBS9/PTHB1 gene revealed a single base deletion of c.299delC (p.Ser100Leufs*24) in exon 4. This frame-shift mutation presumably leads to a 122 amino acid truncated protein with complete loss of its C-terminal PTHB1 domain in combination with a partial loss of the N-terminal PTHB1 domain as well. BBS9/PTHB1 gene mutations have been shown to be associated with BBS syndrome and to the best of our knowledge this study reports the first Pakistani family linked to the BBS9 gene. CONCLUSION: Our molecular findings expand the mutational spectrum of BBS9 gene and also explain the genetic heterogeneity of Pakistan families with BBS syndrome. The growing number of mutations in BBS genes in combination with a detailed phenotypical description of patients will be helpful for genotype-phenotype correlation, targeted genetic diagnosis, prenatal screening and carrier testing of familial and non-familial BBS patients.


27571505 :Bardet-Biedl
Top TF-IDF terms:
['might' 'bardet biedl syndrom' 'bardet biedl' 'bardet' 'biedl'
 'biedl syndrom' 'manag' 'diagnosi' 'recognit orofaci'
 'recess disord variabl' 'healthcar' 'healthcar manag'
 'healthcar manag bardet' 'syndrom rare autosom' 'neurosensori'
 'neurosensori cognit' 'help diagnosi' 'neurosensori cognit defect'
 'clinic present' 'help diagnosi dental']

TEXT: Oral healthcare management in Bardet Biedl syndrome. Bardet Biedl syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder with variable clinical presentation and challenging diagnosis. Recognition of orofacial features might help in the diagnosis. Dental management of affected patients might be complicated by renal, cardiac, metabolic, neurosensory, and cognitive defects.



=======================================

